At this point, we have a rocket capable of shooting and an enemy that moves around menacingly.
So, however, even if we shoot our enemy, we can't hurt him.
So let's see if I can shoot it.
Okay.
Bullets move slowly and our friend moves quite fast.
So the enemy's value will be 0.5 and not one.
And the value of the bullet in bullet Y will be three, not one.
So our enemy moves slowly and our bullets are faster.
So let's have a crack at it.
Perfect.
I could shoot it.
As you can see, our enemy is still immune to our attacks.
So we have to program our game so it detects when there's a collision between the bullet and the enemy.
In that way, we should get a score and the enemy should disappear instead of moving towards us.
So in order to detect collisions, we have to calculate the distance.
Because how do we say this object and that object are together?
We have to determine a minimum distance according to which we can say, okay, if the distance is less
than such number, there's a collision.
To calculate the distance between two objects on a two dimensional space such as our game.
We need a specific formula.
Such a formula is popular among game creators and is the one you can see on the screen.
It might strike you as advanced math, but it's not that complex.
The distance between two objects is equal to the square root of the sum of x of object two minus x of
object one squared.
Plus y of object to minus y of object one squared.
In order for you to see this a bit clearer, we'll use an example.
Suppose that we have an object located in the coordinates minus one of X and one of Y and another object
located in the coordinates.
Three of X and four of y.
If we want to calculate the distance between these two objects, we should do the following.
The distance is equal to the square root of the sum of X of object two, which is three and x of eight
objects one which is minus one.
Okay.
So three minus minus one is four.
Now four squared is 16 and we have the first value of the sum.
The second element is why of object to which is four and why of object one which is one.
Now four minus one is three and three squared is nine.
Now we have the two values of the sum and we can say that 16 plus nine equals 25 and the square root
of 25 is five.
So in this example, the distance between these two objects is five.
Now we should be able to do this using the objects in our game, which are the bullets and the enemy.
So keep this formula in mind.
We're going to apply it by creating a function in charge of verifying if there's a collision.
Since we'll call it inside the game loop, it will be constantly calculating the distance between the
objects so as to check whether there's a collision or not.
So we'll create a new function here where we have the others.
And let's clarify by writing detect collision function.
Our function will be named there's a collision because it will return true or false as value.
And here we'll have to provide this with some arguments so it can calculate.
So let's enter position X of object one and position Y of Object one.
Position X of object two and position Y of object to.
We should be able to solve the equation using these values.
Search equation will be stored in a variable named distance, which will be equal to the calculation
we have to make.
So remember that we need the math module in order to make these calculations.
So let's import it as to use its elements.
This module will allow us to find the square roots and make all the calculations we need for distance.
First we need to find a square root so we call math dot sqrt, which is a method that we use to find
square roots.
And we're going to use placeholders to make sure that we understand how this works.
So let's find the square root of one calculation plus another calculation.
Later on, we'll replace these words with actual values.
Calculation.
One, as we can see in the formula below, is in fact the difference of a subtraction but squared.
So calculation one will be squared and we'll use math dot p0w, which is the method we use to square
numbers.
Like we just said, Operation One is the result of X of Object one minus X of object two.
We've completed the first part of our equation.
The second part is also an exponential portion.
So we'll square calculation two by using math dot p0w calculation two is also a subtraction, but this
one is formed by y of object two minus y of object one.
Note that I've reversed the order as I've put object one and then object to what our formula requires,
object to, and then object one.
But it doesn't matter.
The order of the factors does not alter the product.
And what we're going to calculate is the distance between two objects.
So the order is irrelevant.
So all this allows us to estimate the distance, which will be a number of pixels that will be stored
in distance.
Then inside the same function will verify.
If the distance we obtained is less than some value, we choose to determine if there is a collision.
Taking into account the size of our figures, 27 will be accurate in order to determine if there is
a collision.
Therefore, if the distance is less than 27 will return a true value, which means there's a collision.
Otherwise we'll return a false value, which means there was no collision.
When are we going to call this function?
We said it has to be done inside the loop so that we can verify constantly.
So we're going to do it here before calling player at the end.
So let's create collision.
But now we'll create a collision variable which will store the result obtained from the there's a collision
function.
So collision will store a true or a false value.
An argument x one will be enemy x and y, one will be enemy y, x two will be bulleted x and y, two
will be bullet y.
Our function can now make its calculations.
So let's check if collision is true.
If so, we'll have to reset the bullet to its initial position.
That is, bullet Y equals 500 the height of the rocket and make the bullet stop being visible.
So visible bullet will be equal to false so that we can then shoot a new bullet.
We'll also have to calculate the score, but we don't have a variable that stores it yet.
So we go we go to the rest of our variables and we'll create the score variable, which will be equal
to zero for now.
And where we detect the collisions once we detect one besides resetting the table will assign plus equals
one to score.
And that way it will be increasing one value.
For now, we'll print this in order to see how the score goes and check if it's working.
So let's execute that program to see if we manage to create collisions.
Let's keep the console at hand and let's try to shoot at our enemy.
Missed it once more.
Gotcha.
So here we can see, number one, if I shoot it again, the score increases.
So there's a detail missing.
Our enemy should disappear once we shoot it, and a new one should appear in a different place.
So we have to just reset the initial position values in enemy x, which were random integers.
We should create a function in order not to repeat the code, but for me to teach you how to use PI
game.
Use this and repeat those values.
When we shoot our enemy, it will reappear in a different place.
So let's see if it works.
We'll shoot at it.
And when it's close to the rocket.
Got it.
And it reappeared.
So my score is increasing.
So far it's a pretty basic game, but there's only one enemy.
I'd rather have many more enemies on the screen.
So we're going to do that in our next lesson.
In addition, we'll move the score from the console to the game screen and will make the game end once
the enemy touches our rocket.
So let's go for it.